Operations
len(dictionary) - Returns the number of items in a dictionary.

for key in dictionary - Iterates over each key in a dictionary.

for key, value in dictionary.items() - Iterates over each key,value pair in a dictionary.

if key in dictionary - Checks whether a key is in a dictionary.

dictionary[key] - Accesses a value using the associated key from a dictionary.

dictionary[key] = value - Sets a value associated with a key.

del dictionary[key] - Removes a value using the associated key from a dictionary.


Methods
dictionary.get(key, default) - Returns the value corresponding to a key, or the default value if the specified key is not present.

dictionary.keys() - Returns a sequence containing the keys in a dictionary.

dictionary.values() - Returns a sequence containing the values in a dictionary.

dictionary[key].append(value) - Appends a new value for an existing key.

dictionary.update(other_dictionary) - Updates a dictionary with the items from another dictionary. Existing entries are updated; new entries are added.

dictionary.clear() - Deletes all items from a dictionary.

dictionary.copy() - Makes a copy of a dictionary.


Dictionaries versus Lists 
Dictionaries are similar to lists, but there are a few differences:

Both dictionaries and lists:
are used to organize elements into collections;

are used to initialize a new dictionary or list, use empty brackets;

can iterate through the items or elements in the collection; and

can use a variety of methods and operations to create and change the collections, like removing and inserting items or elements.

Dictionaries only:
are unordered sets;

have keys that can be a variety of data types, including strings, integers, floats, tuples;.

can access dictionary values by keys;

use square brackets inside curly brackets { [ ] };

use colons between the key and the value(s);

use commas to separate each key group and each value within a key group;

make it quicker and easier for a Python interpreter to find specific elements, as compared to a list.
